
Frequently Asked Questions
**************************


Tavern User Questions
=====================


Does Tavern track what I do?
----------------------------

Unlike most social sites, Tavern doesn't want to know who you are, or
what you're into ;) With Tavern, Your identity is tied only your
account - If you want to be someone else, just make a new one. Even
then, we work as hard as we can to avoid knowing anything about you.
Tavern.com doesn't run Analytics or have Social Buttons, and only log
to memory. Running your own Tavern server is even more secure - It
lets you avoid talking to our servers entirely, and we don't know
which messages are yours, or which you are relaying for others.


Can anyone read my private messages?
------------------------------------

NO. No one can read your private messages except for you, and the
person you send them to. When you create an account at Tavern.com, it
generates a unique encryption key for your account, then locks it with
your password, so even we can't get to it. When you run your own
tavern server, your key never leaves your house, increasing your
security even further.


How does Tavern prevent Spam?
-----------------------------

Tavern combines three powerful systems to make it difficult for
Spammers to operate on the network. The first layer of protection is
provided by a "proof-of-work" system, similar to what BitCoin uses. It
ensures that each message that you want to post takes a second or two
before it becomes live. This doesn't effect any individual user very
much, but makes it really difficult for spammers to send out thousands
of messages at once. Secondly, Tavern uses a ranking system, with
upvotes and downvotes, similar to Reddit or Slashdot. This lets you
separate the wheat from the chaff, and see the best comments first.
Finally, Tavern uses a "web of trust" system, which means we show you
messages from people you like first, and then messages from people
THEY like, before messages from strangers.


Will my Tavern Server carry content that I disapprove of?
---------------------------------------------------------

While it's impossible to stop everyone who wants to cause mischief,
Tavern was designed from the beginning to make sure that you're only
downloading the topics that you find interesting. You decide which
Topics ("Apple", or "Startrek") you want your machine to carry - You
can choose to have just a few that interest you, or lots of them, to
help the network grow and propagate. You can also always block
messages from individual posters, and choose moderators to filter
topics for you.


Should I use Tavern for pirating aquatic yodeling videos?
---------------------------------------------------------

Please don't. Tavern is an open network, and while we can't stop you,
you're kinda missing the point. We're trying to build a way for
everyone to be able to share and communicate, even when powerful
interests around the world might try to force them into silence or
conformity. Using Tavern for illegal things just puts a bigger target
on us, and gives more ammunition to people who might want to shut us
down.. And that's not good for anyone. Tavern Networks, LLC will
remain fully compliant with all local laws, including the DMCA - If
we're notified about infringing content on Tavern.com, we'll need to
take it off of our servers. If the same user continues to upload
infringing content, we'll need to block them from accessing our
servers. Please understand that is a very difficult subject for us -
We don't want to be in the business of policing content, or trying to
judge what people should or shouldn't post, but at the same time, in
order to be able to legally operate Tavern.com and our open api
relays, we need to remain in legal compliance.


How anonymous is Tavern?
------------------------

Tavern allows you to post and share messages identified only by your
username and public key.

We avoid logging, so no one knows who you are, and what you're sharing
except for you.

When you run your own Tavern server, your messages are pulled from
dozens of other machines around the net, making sure that even we
don't have access to what you post, share or read.

That said, Tavern can't protect against everything - It's possible to
detect that you are connecting to Tavern, and dedicated agencies (like
governments) may be able to identify you by any number of advanced
techniques, such as monitoring your writing style, by watching all
traffic in or out of your home, or even looking through your walls as
you type.

If you are a secret agent trying to avoid capture, we'd encourage you
to be careful. Make sure that you use a Tavern Bartender, and that you
save messages off to a USB stick to be loaded elsewhere around the
world. For the rest of us, Tavern provides a secure, anonymous means
of sharing the world, balanced with ensuring that messages are
difficult or impossible to block.


Developer FAQ
=============


Can I develop apps for Tavern?
------------------------------

Absolutely! Tavern a fully open system - There's no company who can
change the rules, or cut off anyone's access. Not even us. We're
releasing the full specifications about how to write messages, and
even giving away the computer code that runs our servers.

Tavern runs on machines around the world, which means that even if we
go away, Tavern, and your apps, will keep running.


What technologies is Tavern based on?
-------------------------------------

We've written Tavern over the last few years, in response to an
increasing threat to online freedom. The programming language is
Python 3, and it can store data in either the Mongo Database, or
Postgresql.

On the hardware side, the Tavern Bartenders run under modified
Revision B Raspberry Pis. The Raspberry Pis are fast, inexpensive, and
let us get up and going quickly. We've built a custom-enclosure, and
loaded them up with Wifi and SDcards.

We've developed Tavern under the MIT (Expat) License.


How is this different from existing projects?
---------------------------------------------

There several approaches to providing anonymous online services, and
various teams have tried before, to varying levels of success. Tavern
combines what we feel is the best of each of these services to bring a
true next-generation service.

   Projects like Tor, I2P and CJDNS are amazing innovations - While
   these projects operate through very different means, they each try
   to make it easier to let computers talk to one another, even when
   they might otherwise be blocked. They provide an effective way to
   bypass firewalls, or in the case of CJDNS, work without any central
   infrastructure at all. What they don't do is provide any system for
   posting, saving, or sharing messages.

   Tavern operates at a higher level - It builds on top of these
   technologies to make it easy to post a message and have it saved
   and re-transmitted around the world.

   Projects like Diaspora*, Identica, and Tent are trying to re-
   implement Facebook and Twitter, but give you more control of your
   data - We think that's a great start - No one should rely on a
   centralized server to talk to their friends and loved ones.

   But these servers are still designed around the idea of always-on,
   persistent servers, which define who you are and where people find
   you. With Tavern, your identity is defined by a public key, and it
   can come from anywhere. You could have an iPod Touch which was only
   only for 5 minutes a day, and it could relay all your messages and
   get replies.

   Freenet is an amazing project, that we've been working with (in
   limited ways) for years - Their goals are a model for all of us,
   and their WoT system directly inspired the one used in Tavern.

   While we laud the ambition behind Freenet, in practice, it's often
   just too slow to be usable for everyday communication, and ends up
   only being used when necessary, which limits the audience. If
   people are only using your network when they absolutely need to,
   there are fewer people who can hear your cry when you are in
   trouble.

   Tavern is optimized for discussions and debate, rather than storing
   content indefinitely, which lets us make different technical
   tradeoffs - These let the network run much faster, without
   compromising the anonymity and safety of the users.

   Usenet is a robust system of exchanging messages that's been
   running for over 30 years - It's been around longer than
   Smartphones, Facebook, Google, and even the Web itself!

   We've built Tavern on many of the same principals that have always
   made Usenet great - It's a distributed system, with no central
   control or point of failure, and messages can be copied and relayed
   to reach everyone.

   Usenet has worked well for decades, but continues to run into
   limitations of it's age - It was designed and flourished in
   Universities where everyone knew one another - It doesn't have
   built in SPAM protection, voting, or support for signing and
   encryption. Often features have been tested or used in limited
   circumstances, but they don't work as well as they would if they
   were built in.

   An example is sharing files- Because Usenet doesn't have any built-
   in ability to store and share binary files, people exchange files
   by converting them down into hundreds of text messages. These
   messages are fragile, harder to filter, and waste a lot of space.

   We like to think that if Usenet were designed in 2013 instead of
   1971, it would look a lot like Taven.

   We're always interested in integrating with as many other networks
   as possible. We've talked with the developers of quite a few other
   networks, and we want to do everything reasonable to interop.


Why does Tavern support Tor and not CJDNS or I2P?
-------------------------------------------------

I2P is a neat project, and we'd love to work with them down the line.
Right now, the performance of running the Java version on the
Raspberry Pi just wasn't up to what we were looking for.

CJDNS/Hyperborea accept connections over regular IPv6, so in theory
Tavern should work. These systems are based around manually exchanging
keys with people you trust, which isn't otherwise required in the
Tavern model. Right now, there really isn't a big "opennet" which
anyone can connect to. Aren't messages kinda big?

While a message may seem lengthy when written out in the
documentation, when it's stored or transferred between servers the
message is always compressed - Saved to disk this message is ~2KB,
which is approximately the same size as the uncompressed payload, and
within the average range for a HTTP header.


Why not allow something to be posted into multiple topics?
----------------------------------------------------------

The initial versions of Tavern did allow cross-posting, and it took a
bit of code (and an API change) to take it out. After testing, it
really doesn't work very well- Almost anything you want to have happen
to a post, you only want to effect the post in a Single topic. For
example, if you upvote a post, it will be shown closer to the top of
the list of posts for that topic. A post with 15 upvotes will be
higher than a post with 5 upvotes. If you crossposted a message to two
topics, however, with varying numbers of members, it might get a LOT
of upvotes from the popular topic, which would catapult it higher than
should be in the less popular topic. You can fix this by special
casing the voting code, to count votes separately for each topic. The
problem was, I found I was special casing it in nearly every case.
Separating posts also creates more targetted discussions- Imagine a
post about a vulnerability in a popular application.

   Members of the "Programming" topic might write about how to avoid
   it. Members of "WhiteHat" might write about how to guard your
   servers against it. Members of the the suite's Topic might talk
   about how it affects each of them.

None of these posts would be directly interesting to the other Topics.
Or imagine if I were to post about a baseball game, and include both
the "Yankees" and "Redsox" topics. I'd probably just be generating
fights, more than encouraging worthwhile discussion between rivals. If
you really want to cross-post something, the best way is probably to
manually copy and paste it to make multiple posts. This will create
better discussions, more meaningful voting, and allow for better
filtering at the topic level.
