What is Tavern
========


The Promise of the internet
----
The dawn of the Internet promised us a new world, without physical boundaries, where ambitions could be made manifest -- a world where anyone could express their beliefs without fear of being coerced into silence or conformity. It promised a place that was uncensorable, that allowed us to be whomever we wanted to be, and to band together in communities of common interests to become more powerful than we could be alone.

Sadly, that freedom is in danger.

As the Internet has grown toward ubiquity, governments around the world have repeatedly attempted to pass laws regulating the free discourse on the Internet and silencing calls for social change. At the same time, corporations increasingly strive to identify each of us, monitoring everything that we share and forcing us to play by their rules.

Tavern helps restore that Promise
----
It doesn't have to be this way.

Tavern is a distributed, anonymous, unblockable network designed to ensure that no one is silenced, censored, or cut off from the rest of the world. Tavern runs on computers small and large, forming a scalable meshnet where anyone can communicate freely and openly, without fear of censorship or oppression. Each machine that joins the network makes it stronger and more resilient, and helps protect the privacy and free speech of every other user. Powerful encryption ensures no one will be eavesdropping on your conversations.

Tavern is a community built by and of its citizens and their communities, designed to let you control exactly who you want to be. Whether you want to post under your real name, or as WilcoFan17, you never have to share more than you want to.

Tavern is built around ensuring that you can always make this choice for yourself, restricting the options for harassment, stalkers and trolls. Tavern lets you share and post whatever you want - It supports messages in text, but also has built-in support for sharing photos, videos and other (legal) data, all copied through the same network, and shared with whomever you want. It also supports private person-to-person messages, which are encrypted so only the intended recipient can open and read them.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   faq
   ifaq
   why
