Infrequently Asked Questions-



What type of Keys does Tavern ensure_keys, and why?
	Tavern generates keys using GPG keys with RSA Encryption.
	While earlier versions of Tavern used keys using crypto primitives directly, that introduces too many places for bugs to creep in.
	Not only could there be bugs in our code, but in any of the client implementations, which would ALSO need to get it right, ever time.
	It's just not worth it. GPG is reasonable well tested in the wild, and with GPGME it's embeddable (even if it's ugly)

	I'd love to use ECC rather than RSA, but GPG does not support this in the mainline/released version yet.
	Once 2.1 is released, and ECC is commonly available, it's certainly possible to have Tavern use keys in that format.


Why use 2048-bit keys, rather than 4096-bit keys?
	Tavern does not rely on a specic key length - It will work fine with 4096 bit keys.
	That said, I'd suggest against using them.

	Tavern messages include the public key in EVERY message.
	Using 4096-bit keys will bloat your messages, but not provide substantially more security.
	2048-bit keys are currently believed to be sufficiently hard to factor, so longer messages would add more network time for little gain.

How are you authenticating messages?

	The Tavern security model is based around ensuring that your messages are difficult to impersonate.
	When you post a message publicly, there is nothing stopping someone from copy/pasting your words into a new message.
	This message would appear to come from them, however, and not from you.

	Each message that is posted to Tavern includes a "payload" dictionary in the JSON message.
	This Payload is passed along untouched - Each node that receives a message can alter parts of it, but nothing in the 'payload' section.
	We use this Payload section to create a hash for the message. This hash acts as the identifier for your message.

	Each message will also contain a signature.
	This GPG-generated signature asserts that a certain public key is the author of the work.

	While it would be possible for a server to remove your signature and add their own, this is no different than copy and pasting the text of your message.
	It would create a duplicate of your message, under their name.

Why doesn't Tavern include support for Analytics or Facebook Like iframes?
	Many startups want to know as much as possible about their users, to help optimize the site and focus on the features they really use.
	I love and support the mindset, but the more data we capture, the more opportunities there are for data to leak.

	Adding Google Analytics or Facebook Likes would tell those sites about every visitor to Tavern, and that's not who we want to be.

Why does Tavern embed certain content, like Youtube/Vimeo videos?
	
	By default, Tavern does not embed any external content.
	
	For convenience, users are able to opt-in to including certain external sources, in an iframe.
	The iframe helps protect their JS from doing anything to intercept Tavern.com, but if you enable this option, they will be able to see your IP address.


Why can't I click on embeded (external) images, and go to them directly?
	Tavern is using the HTML5 "Sandbox" element, to keep you safer from external links.
	In supported browsers, prevents embed content from changing the page you're on, to avoid spoofing and many other attacks.
	The disadvantage of this is that it also prevents clicking the thumbnail on embedded images from bringing you to the original.
	Ideally, you'd fix this by upload the image directly, rather than linking.
	Alternatively, click the link in the post, rather than the thumbnail.


Why not allow something to be posted into multiple topics?
	The initial versions of Tavern did allow cross-posting, and it took a bit of code (and an API change) to take it out.
	After testing, it really doesn't work very well-

	Almost anything you want to have happen to a post, you only want to effect the post in a Single topic.
	For example, if you upvote a post, it will be shown closer to the top of the list of posts for that topic.
	A post with 15 upvotes will be higher than a post with 5 upvotes.

	If you crossposted a message to two topics, however, with varying numbers of members, 
	it might get a LOT of upvotes from the popular topic, which would catapult it higher than should be in the less popular topic.

	You can fix this by special casing the voting code, to count votes separately for each topic.
	The problem was, I found I was special casing it in nearly *every* case.

	Separating posts also creates more targetted discussions-

	Imagine a post about a vulnerability in a popular application.
		Members of the "Programming" topic might write about how to avoid it.
		Members of "WhiteHat" might write about how to guard your servers against it.
		Members of the the suite's Topic might talk about how it affects each of them.
	None of these posts would be directly interesting to the other Topics.

	Or imagine if I were to post about a baseball game, and include both the "Yankees" and "Redsox" topics.
	I'd probably just be generating fights, more than encouraging worthwhile discussion between rivals.


	If you really want to cross-post something, the best way is probably to manually copy and paste it to make multiple posts.
	This will create better discussions, more meaningful voting, and allow for better filtering at the topic level.

	
How is my key stored?
	When you create an account at Tavern, we ensure_keys a private and public keypair for each account.
	The public key is stored in the database, while the private key is encrypted, using a hashed version of your password as the encryption secret.

	This hashed version of your password is different from the hashed version we use to authenticate you.
	When you log in, we store this special hashed secret in a cookie on your machine. When you send a message to Tavern, we used this stored secret to unlock your Key, encrypt and send the message, then prompty forget about your key again.

Why does the website do the processing/signing on the server, rather than in the client?
		
	Unfortunately, PCs are often infected with viruses and Malware, storing sensetive data in cookies or localstorage is problematic.
	Locally stored keys open an attack vector for misbehaved browser extensions, and other local exploits, which we'd like to avoid.

	Instead, we store the key in two parts, as mentioned above.
	An encrypted version of the key is stored on the server, and the passphrase for the encryption is stored locally via cookies.

	This means that even we don't have access to your key, except during the times when you're logged in.
	Beyond misbehaved local threats, storing the key in the client also wouldn't add much security.
	Ultimately, since the Javascript is loading from our server, it has access to the key anyway.

	This means that any proxy that incercepts HTTPS requests to our server (as exist on some corporate proxies) could rewrite the JS, and steal your key.
	If you want to ensure that no one but you ever has any (even transient) access to your your key, and are sure you can keep your system secure, you can keep your key locally by running a copy of the Tavern software on your local machine.


Why are user avatars sometimes Data:URIs and sometimes linked images?
	The first 10 or so times you come to the page, browsers that support it will receive data:uris.
	These are significantly faster for adhoc page loads, and should make the initial experience better.
	The downside to data:uris, however, is that they aren't cached- Which means if you ARE sticking around, they'll end up being the slower way to handle things.
	After the server determines you're sticking around, it will begin sending img files, which will be faster once caching kicks in.


Why Tornado, and not Flask
	Flask didn't support Python3 at the time this project was created. Tornado, even when not doing the async tools, provides a really nice, low-magic framework for webdev.

Why store some things (like notes about users) on the server, and others (like votes) in localstorage?
	The upvotes/downvotes on existing comments are there to remind you what you've already voted on. 
	In theory, we could calculate it by loading it all from the server, but it would be too intensive, for too little gain.
	Instead, we just store it in localstorage, and if you change computers, we don't worry about displaying it.


Does Tavern export Encryption?
	Tavern relies on Gnu GPG, and does not implement it's own encryption algorithms.
